20 Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Germany
Written by Bryan Dearsley
Updated May 26, 2022

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

History, culture, and natural beauty perhaps best describe the essence of vacationing in Germany. With its many historic cities and quaint small towns, along with an abundance of forests and mountains, visitors are spoiled for choice when it comes to choosing unique places to visit in this beautiful part of Europe.

Those wanting to sightsee or experience the arts should head to the larger metropolitan areas such as Munich, Frankfurt, or Hamburg. For those looking for recreational activities, consider a visit to places such as the majestic Bavarian Alps, the Black Forest, or the Rhine Valley.

Lovely old cathedrals and grand palaces are everywhere. And in the smaller towns and villages, some boasting still-intact original medieval Old Towns (Altstadt), many centuries-old traditions are still practiced, including traditional Christmas markets, festivals, and fairs.

At the cultural heart of Germany is the capital, Berlin. Home to many fine museums and galleries, this vibrant city makes for a great base from which to explore the many other delights the country has to offer. And for nature lovers, there's a whole world of possibilities in Germany's great outdoors.

For ideas and recommendations to help plan your travels, be sure to read our list of the top tourist attractions in Germany.

1. Berlin's Brandenburg Gate

Modeled on the Acropolis in Athens and built for King Frederick William II in 1791, the monumental sandstone Brandenburg Gate in Berlin's Mitte district was the city's first Neoclassical structure. It measures an impressive 26 meters in height, which includes the Quadriga, the spectacular four-horse chariot carrying the goddess of victory perched atop this spectacular building.


Its six huge columns on each side of the structure form five impressive passages: four were used by regular traffic, while the center was reserved for the royal carriages. Huge Doric columns also decorate the two buildings at each side of the Gate, once used by toll-collectors and guards.

Undoubtedly Berlin's most iconic structure, it's hard to believe that the majestic structure you see today was severely damaged during WWII. It was also once part of the infamous Berlin Wall and, for a few decades, was symbolic of the division of Berlin into East and West.

2. Cologne Cathedral (Kölner Dom)

The towering Cologne Cathedral (Kölner Dom), the Cathedral of St. Peter and St. Mary, is located on the banks of the Rhine and is undoubtedly Cologne's most impressive landmark. This masterpiece of High Gothic architecture is one of the largest cathedrals in Europe. Construction on this most ambitious building project of the Middle Ages started in 1248 and reportedly took over 600 years to complete.


As imposing as its façade, the cathedral's magnificent interior covers an area of 6,166 square meters and boasts 56 huge pillars. Above the high altar is the Reliquary of the Three Kings, a 12th-century work of art in gold that was designed by Nicholas of Verdun to house the relics of the Three Kings brought here from Milan.

Other highlights include the panoramic views from the South Towers, the 12th- and 13th-century stained glass in the Three Kings Chapel, and the Treasury with its many precious objects, all of which survived largely intact after WWII. For some of the best vistas over the city and river, climb the 533 steps to the viewing platform in the South Tower. A small entrance fee is required.

3. The Black Forest, Baden-Württemberg

The beautiful Black Forest with its dark, densely-wooded hills is one of the most visited upland regions in all of Europe. Situated in the southwestern corner of Germany and extending 160 kilometers from Pforzheim in the north to Waldshut on the High Rhine in the south, it's a hiker's heaven.


On the west side, the Black Forest descends steeply to the Rhine, crossed by lush valleys, while on the east, it slopes more gently down to the upper Neckar and Danube valleys. Popular spots include Germany's oldest ski area at Todtnau, the magnificent spa facilities of Baden-Baden, and the attractive resort of Bad Liebenzell.

Other highlights include the spectacular Black Forest Railway. It's centered on Triberg with its famous falls, and Triberg itself, home to the Black Forest Open Air Museum.

The best way to catch them all? Grab a map of the Black Forest Panoramic Route, a 70-kilometer driving tour that takes in the very best views over the region, along with its top historic attractions, including stunning castles and numerous medieval towns and villages.


4. The Ultimate Fairy-Tale Castle: Schloss Neuschwanstein, Bavaria

The quaint old town of Füssen, situated between the Ammergau and Allgäu Alps and a popular alpine resort and winter sports center, is a good base from which to explore nearby Neuschwanstein Castle. This spectacular old fortress is widely recognized as one of Europe's most famous and picturesque royal castles.

King Ludwig II of Bavaria built this many-towered and battlement-covered fantasy fortress, famous as the inspiration for Walt Disney's iconic theme park castles, from 1869-86. A variety of tour options are offered, including guided tours of the sumptuous interior taking in the Throne Room, the Singers' Hall – and some of the country's most spectacular views.

5. Miniatur Wunderland and the Historic Port of Hamburg

In the heart of the historic Port of Hamburg, the magnificent Miniatur Wunderland, the world's largest model railway, is an attraction that appeals equally to young and old alike. Boasting more than 9.5 miles of model railway track, this massive scale model includes sections dedicated to the USA, England, Scandinavia, as well as Hamburg. It also incorporates around 1,300 trains, more than 50,000 microscopic lights, and in excess of 400,000 human figures.

It's not unheard of for guests to spend many hours exploring this fascinating world, with its remarkably detailed miniature airports, complete with planes that actually take off, as well as crowded cities, quaint rural scenes, and bustling harbors. For a memorable experience, book one of the behind-the-scenes tours, an especially fun thing to do at night.

Speaking of harbors, be sure to explore the vast Port of Hamburg while you're here. Covering 100 square kilometers, this huge tidal harbor is home to one of the world's largest cruise ship terminals, and is known as the Gateway to Germany. To make the most of your visit, note that the harbor is best explored by tour boat.


Afterwards, visit the harborside promenade, a lovely pedestrian route, and the Warehouse District. This historic district is famous for its continuous lines of tall brick-built warehouses.