Chicago
Written by Lana Law and Lura Seavey
Updated Apr 25, 2022

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

Chicago, the "Windy City" as it is often called, lies along the shores of Lake Michigan. Known for its vibrant arts scene, numerous cultural attractions, excellent shopping, and interesting architecture, this city attracts visitors from the US and around the globe.

Chicago enjoys a worldwide reputation as a focal point of 20th-century architecture and art, with architects such as Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright, and artists like Picasso, Mirõ, Dubuffet, and Chagall leaving their mark.

The city also has much to offer in the sporting sphere, too, with the Chicago Bears in American football, the Chicago White Sox and Cubs in baseball, and the Chicago Bulls in basketball.

Last, but not least, are the beautiful beaches that stretch along the waterfront, attracting throngs of sun seekers in the summer.

Deciding when to visit Chicago may depend on your interests, particularly if you are coming for sports or cultural events, but spring until fall is the best time for weather.

For a complete look at places to visit, see our list of the top attractions and things to do in Chicago.

1. Visit the Art Institute of Chicago
Art Institute of Chicago
Art Institute of Chicago
The Art Institute of Chicago is a world class museum with hundreds of thousands of artworks. The diverse collection spans thousands of years and includes pieces from a variety of media including painting, prints, photography, sculpture, decorative arts, textiles, architectural drawings and more.

The Institute is known for its collection of impressionist and post-Impressionist paintings including Georges Seurat's 1884 A Sunday Afternoon on La Grande Jatte, Renoir's 1879 Acrobats at the Cirque Fernando, and numerous paintings by Claude Monet.

The main building, designed by Shepley, Rutan, and Coolidge in beaux-arts style, was built for the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition. Several other buildings have been added on over the years and today the complex measures 400,000 square feet.

Address: 111 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

Official site: http://www.artic.edu/

2. Walk through Millennium Park
Millennium Park
Millennium Park
Millennium Park is part of the larger Grant Park, located in downtown Chicago bordered by Michigan Avenue to the west, Columbus Drive to the east, Randolph Street to the north, and Monroe Street to the south. Its centerpiece is a 110-ton sculpture name Cloud Gate, which has a polished, mirror-like stainless steel surface that was inspired by liquid mercury. It reflects the surroundings, including buildings, the sky, and the tourists who walk through its central arch.


Another top attraction in Millennium Park is Crown Fountain, a fascinating modern interpretation of the ancient gargoyle that gives the appearance of water flowing from the mouths of projected images of Chicago citizens. Other popular things to do here include seeing a performance at the Jay Pritzker Pavilion, an outdoor concert venue, and visiting Lurie Garden, which is open to the public at no cost year-round.

Located close to many of the major attractions, as well as great shopping, this area of the city is a convenient place to base yourself. For accommodation suggestions see our list of recommended hotels in this area.

Address: 201 East Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois

Official site: http://www.cityofchicago.org/city/en/depts/dca/supp_info/millennium_park.html


3. Stroll around Navy Pier
Navy Pier
Navy Pier
The Navy Pier originally opened in 1916 as an amusement area and shipping facility but is now one of Chicago's most popular tourist attractions. Today, the Navy Pier is made up of 50 acres of gardens, attractions, shops, restaurants, concert venues, and parks. There is a 150-foot Ferris wheel and an historic carousel in Navy Pier Park.

Visitors can also watch a film at the 3D Imax Theater, watch actors perform the classics at the Chicago Shakespeare Theater, or visit Crystal Gardens, a one-acre, six-story, indoor botanical garden. Also located here is the Chicago Children's Museum. The Pier hosts year-round festivities, including the Chicago Festival in August. Cruise ships leave from here on various sightseeing excursions.

Address: 600 East Grand Avenue, Chicago, Illinois

Official site: www.navypier.org


4. Reach for the Stars at Adler Planetarium
The Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Illinois
The Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Illinois
The Adler Planetarium is leaps and bounds beyond the ones most kids get to visit on school trips, and all ages will appreciate the shows and comprehensive exhibits it has to offer. The Adler prides itself in being the first planetarium in the Western Hemisphere, built in 1930 on the shore of Lake Michigan.

The planetarium is home to two dome theaters, which offer a variety of shows, including exploration of Chicago's night sky, the solar system, and the moon. There is also an extensive array of exhibits that explore topics including life on other worlds, meteors and meteorites, space exploration, the history of the scientific discipline, and even the history of astrology.

There are also several exhibits dedicated to the accomplishments of marginalized groups including female, Latinx, and LGBTQ+ astronomers. Of note is an excellent exhibit that looks at the importance of Islamic astronomers' contributions and how their studies affected the faith and the world. In addition, there are collections of artifacts from astronomers past, including many antique and ancient sundials, as well as telescopes.

While visiting, be sure to leave enough time for the Skyline Walk along the perimeter, the best place to get photos of the city skyline short of a boat cruise.

Address: 1300 S. DuSable Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois

Official site: www.adlerplanetarium.org


5. Museum of Science and Industry
Museum of Science and Industry
Museum of Science and Industry
At the north end of Jackson Park is the Museum of Science and Industry, founded in 1933, and arguably the most impressive museum in Chicago. It is devoted to the application of natural laws in technological and industrial development.

The museum is thought to be the first in the U.S. to incorporate the idea of "hands-on" exhibits. Visitors are encouraged to interact with hundreds of exhibits. The MSI features permanent and changing exhibits, as well as an OMNIMAX theater.

Address: 5700 South Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Illinois