Los Angeles
Written by Lana Law and Brad Lane
Updated May 26, 2022

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

The sprawling city of Los Angeles, in Southern California, is filled with year-round attractions and things to do. It has long been known internationally in the film and entertainment industry, particularly for Hollywood, a place that has drawn aspiring actors and actresses from across the country for over a century.

Today, LA is a culturally diverse city with a reputation for being the creative center of America. The thriving culinary scene, incredible shopping, outstanding museums, and fun family attractions are some of the top things to do in California. And with abundant sunshine and moderate to hot weather throughout the year, a suitcase typically includes shorts and T-shirts for almost any visit.

Sunseekers coming to enjoy the warm climate and beaches will find plenty of things to do and interesting neighborhoods to explore. Upgrades to the public transportation network in recent years and the addition of a Metro Bike Share in downtown LA have made getting around and sightseeing easier than ever.

For families, nearby Disneyland and Universal Studios are key destinations that often warrant repeat visits.

To help plan your sightseeing itinerary, see our list of the top tourist attractions in Los Angeles.

See also: Where to Stay in Los Angeles: Best Areas & Hotels

1. Universal Studios Hollywood
Universal Studios Hollywood
Universal Studios Hollywood
Universal Studios Theme Park is known for its mind-blowing rides based on blockbuster movies, but it is also a working movie studio and an attraction everyone can enjoy. The highlight for most is the ever-changing selection of rides, ranging from simulators to roller coasters. Favorite movie and TV-themed rides and sets include The Wizarding World of Harry Potter, The Simpsons, Transformers, Jurassic World - The Ride, and Despicable Me Minion Mayhem.

To save time standing in long lines consider purchasing a Skip the Line: Front of Line Pass at Universal Studios Hollywood. This handy ticket gives you a one-time fast entry to each of the park's rides, attractions, and shows, as well as behind-the-scenes access to select attractions.

When you are tired of the rides, you can check out CityWalk, a three-block entertainment area, with shopping, dining, and theaters. Another option is a guided tour of the studios to explore behind the scenes of some of Universal's most popular movie sets. The VIP Experience allows you opportunities to see the sets and areas not open to the general public.

Address: 100 Universal City Plaza, Universal City, California

Official site: http://www.universalstudioshollywood.com/

2. Griffith Park and Griffith Observatory
Griffith Park and Griffith Observatory
Griffith Park and Griffith Observatory
Griffith Park and Griffith Observatory
Griffith Park and Griffith Observatory
Griffith Park, in the eastern part of the Santa Monica Mountains, and covering an area of 4,210 acres, is the largest city park in Los Angeles. It's home to the Los Angeles Zoo, the Griffith Observatory, a planetarium, and a Greek theater. It's also home to golf courses, tennis courts, hiking trails, and a riding center created for the 1984 Olympic Games. And walking trails and scenic drives through the mountains offer views over the city and beyond.

The Griffith Observatory is one of the city's most interesting experience-based attractions, and it's all free to the public. On the grounds are exhibits and telescopes. The main highlight is a look through the Zeiss telescope, used for viewing the moon and planets. You can use the telescopes free each evening the facility is open. Also on-site are solar telescopes used for viewing the sun.

The park and observatory are named for Griffith J. Griffith, who donated the greater part of the parkland to the city in 1896 and willed funds to the city for the creation of the observatory.

Official site: www.laparks.org/dos/parks/griffithPK/griffith.htm

3. Disneyland Resort
Carousel
Carousel
Just outside Los Angeles, Disneyland is California's premier family vacation destination, attracting visitors since the 1950s. Disneyland Park, with rides and experiences in elaborately created theme sets, is what most people picture when they imagine Disneyland. The Disneyland California Adventure Park, created during one of the expansions, holds even more action and adventure, with seven lands based on movie themes.

Relatively new to the scene are several Star Wars-themed rides. They include Star Wars Rise of the Resistance and the Millennium Falcon: Smuggler's Run. The rides are in the new Star Wars Galaxy Edge area, which is full of shops and restaurants made out to look like the Black Spire Outpost on the planet of Batuu.

Beyond the rides and Disney characters wandering the streets, the resort also offers a full complement of features and services for a complete vacation. Hotels, restaurants, shopping, and all kinds of entertainment options are available at Disneyland Resort.

Anaheim, home to Disneyland Resort, is also worth exploring on a weekend trip. Several outdoor dining and shopping areas extend from the park throughout the city, including the historic downtown core of Anaheim, known as Central City.

Official site: https://disneyland.disney.go.com/

Read More: Things to Do in Anaheim, California

4. Hollywood
Hollywood
Hollywood
A suburb of Los Angeles, Hollywood is a destination in itself, with its own unique history and iconic sites. The attractions in Hollywood are closely associated with the film industry and the glamour of the silver screen.

The hillside Hollywood sign, Hollywood Boulevard, and the Chinese Theatre are some of the top places to visit. If you're lucky, you might even spot a celebrity or two out for a shopping trip on Rodeo Drive. A fun family activity in Hollywood is finding all your favorite actors' stars among the 2,500 plus on the Walk of Fame.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Hollywood: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More: Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Hollywood

5. The Getty Center
The Getty Center
The Getty Center
On a hilltop in the Santa Monica Mountains, the Getty Center, designed by Richard Meier, is a huge complex measuring 0.75 square miles and set on 110 acres. The unique building and the beautiful grounds provide the perfect setting for this impressive museum. Collections include European paintings, drawings, sculpture, and decorative arts, as well as 19th- and 20th-century photography.

The views from the museum grounds out over Los Angeles are incredible. Book a table at The Restaurant and enjoy a casual lunch while soaking up the scenery.

The Getty Center is one of two locations of the J. Paul Getty Museum, created by the late oil magnate, J. Paul Getty. The Getty Villa, set in a recreated Roman country house, deals with art from the Stone Age to the end of the Roman Empire.

Address: 1200 Getty Center Drive, Los Angeles, California