20 Best Places to Visit in India
Written by Joni Sweet
Updated Mar 30, 2022

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

Deeply traditional yet endlessly surprising, India is one of those destinations that ends up on every traveler's bucket list at some point. They might dream of going to Agra to see the Taj Mahal in all its glory, or exploring the royal palaces scattered throughout Rajasthan. Others find themselves attracted to the jaw-dropping landscapes in Darjeeling and Rishikesh, or the postcard-perfect beaches in Goa.

There's also India's big cities–New Delhi, Mumbai, and Kolkata–each of which has its own distinctive personality. It's impossible to get bored exploring the temples, markets, and colorful streets of India's biggest urban centers. The hardest part of traveling to India is figuring out exactly what to see on your journey.

Whether you're going on an epic backpacking trip or a luxe vacation, plan your adventure with this list of the best places to visit in India.

1. Agra
Taj Mahal in Agra
Taj Mahal in Agra
If there was just one symbol to represent all of India, it would be the Taj Mahal. The monument inspires millions of tourists to make the trip to Agra every year, waking up before dawn to see magnificent structure radiate at sunrise. But Agra tops the list of the best places to visit in India for reasons that go beyond India's most famous attraction.

The city in Uttar Pradesh is chock-full of marvelous Mughal monuments, like Itimad-ud-Daulah's Tomb and Akbar's Mausoleum, decked out in hypnotic inlaid marble designs from top to bottom. Plus, tourists can also see another UNESCO World Heritage Site: the Agra Fort. With so many wonders in just one place, Agra is a must-visit city for tourists in India.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Agra

Read More: Top-Rated Attractions & Places to Visit in Agra
2. New Delhi
Humayun's Tomb
Humayun's Tomb
Despite its crowds and chaos, New Delhi offers tourists a lot to love. The colorful capital of India is the perfect marriage of heritage and modernity. Old Delhi contains some of the country's most treasured attractions, including the Jama Masjid, Red Fort, and Chandni Chowk shopping thoroughfare. But throughout the sprawling city, tourists can explore countless other sites of spiritual and cultural importance.

Top tourist attractions in New Delhi include the Lotus Temple; India Gate; Humayun's Tomb; and India's tallest minaret, Qutub Minar. Fill your days exploring these mesmerizing sites, and refueling at street-side chai stalls and high-end restaurants.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Delhi: Best Areas & Hotels

3. Mumbai
The Gateway of India and the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in Mumbai
The Gateway of India and the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel in Mumbai
Want to see a more cosmopolitan side of India? Head to the energetic, coastal city of Mumbai–home to ultra-wealthy entrepreneurs and the hottest Bollywood actors. Tourists are never far from five-star hotels or gourmet restaurants in this luxe city. And even if those activities are out of budget, a cruise down the beloved Marine Drive will make you feel like royalty as you catch a glimpse of the scenic coast and glamorous Art Deco buildings.

You can also see a more authentic, local side of Mumbai in the bustling "Thieves Market" or at the Churchgate railway station, where hundreds of thousands of homemade lunches are packed up for delivery to the city's office workers every day.

Make sure you devote a day to checking out Sanjay Gandhi National Park and exploring the 2,000-year-old Kanheri Cave carvings.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Mumbai

Read More: Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Mumbai
4. Rajasthan
Gadi Sagar Temple in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
Gadi Sagar Temple in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan
Translated to "Land of Kings," Rajasthan brims with remnants of the kings and queens of past centuries. Between its glittering palaces, stately forts, and lively festivals, this western state deserves a starring role in your trip to India.

Jaipur, part of the Golden Triangle Tourist Circuit, which also includes Agra and New Delhi, is one of the top places to visit in Rajasthan. Dubbed "The Paris of India," it's known for its characteristic pink buildings, lavish City Palace, and jewelry stores galore.

The "Blue City," Jodhpur, offers tourists an equally unforgettable experience in its hilltop Mehrangarh Fort.

Udaipur oozes romance with its flower-lined streets and fantastic City Palace Complex, where the royal family still lives today.

And Jaisalmer looks like an Arabian Nights fairy tale brought to life, with its yellow sandstone structures and historic havelis (mansions). No matter where you end up in this desert state, you'll be captivated by the magic of Rajasthan.

Read More: Top-Rated Attractions & Places to Visit in Jaipur
5. Rishikesh
Rishikesh
Rishikesh
Rishikesh has been on the radar for spiritually minded travelers since the late 1960s, when the Beatles spent time in Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's ashram–now an abandoned site that has become an off-the-beaten-path tourist attraction for fans.

The town is nestled in the foothills of the Himalayas on the banks of the holy Ganges River, and serves as a center for yoga and pilgrimages. Take part in the action, or just enjoy the sounds of the temple bells and sightseeing from Rishikesh's two suspension bridges, often guarded by assertive families of monkeys. Keep your distance.