21 Top-Rated Tourist Attractions in Thailand
Written by Meagan Drillinger and Diana Bocco
Updated Jul 13, 2022

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

The "Land of Smiles" is one of the jewels of Southeast Asia. Thanks to a thriving tourism industry, Thailand is well-developed and provides all kinds of modern comforts – yet it's also still wild enough to offer off-the-beaten-path adventure and once-in-a-lifetime travel experiences. Whether you are here for the world-class beaches in the south or the mountain villages in the north, Thailand will not disappoint.

Cities like Bangkok and Chiang Mai are bustling hives of activity and commerce, but you haven't really seen the country until you've trekked in the mountains or enjoyed some face-time with elephants or the bold monkeys always ready to steal your lunch (or your camera, if you're not careful). Thailand's attractions are diverse, and each provides a rewarding and memorable experience in its own way.

For some inspiration when planning your trip, here's our list of top tourist attractions in Thailand.

1. Railay Beach
Railay Beach
Railay Beach
Krabi province is home to some of Thailand's most famous beach destinations-and Railay tops the list as one of the most stunning. Considered by many as one of the best beaches in the country, Railay delivers on promises of white sand, turquoise-blue water, and the feeling that you've found a slice of paradise even before your feet touch the sand.


The island can be reached by boat from Krabi town and Ao Nang-and the trip on a long-tail traditional boat is just as magical as what you'll encounter when you reach the shores.

While the beach might be the main reason to visit the island, Railay is also a rock-climbing hot spot, with karst peaks drawing adventurers both experienced and novice, ready to take on the towering limestone cliffs.

Among the many other active things to do, Railay is well-known for its ocean rafting and kayaking, snorkeling and scuba diving-but visitors can also try their hand at cooking classes or indulge in a massage.

There's also the tourist-friendly Diamond Cave, reached via a beautiful trail with stunning views and ready to accommodate curious visitors looking to do some exploring between stretches of sunbathing.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Krabi Province

2. Koh Phi Phi
Boats on shore, Koh Phi Phi
Boats on shore, Koh Phi Phi | Photo Copyright: Meagan Drillinger
The Phi Phi Islands are one of Thailand's most popular resort areas for a reason-the clear blue waters, the soft sand, the breathtaking views that go on forever.


You can reach Phi Phi Don-the largest of the islands and the only one permanently inhabited-on a rented kayak or by hiring a small wooden boat to take you here.

Perhaps one of the most fun spots on Koh Phi Phi is Monkey Beach, where you'll come face to face, literally, with plenty of macaques ready to steal your lunch.

Koh Phi Phi
Koh Phi Phi
Long Beach is another nice spot on the island; while not a secluded place where you can hope for privacy, it's great for watching the sunset. If you're lucky and the tide is out, it's a beautiful walk back towards the main part of the island.

Tour operators offer packages for snorkeling and diving trips to the islands, as well as excursions to the famous Maya Bay, where the Leonardo DiCaprio movie The Beach was filmed. Because Koh Phi Phi draws so many tourists, there are plenty of tour companies arranging tickets to other beach destinations, such as Phuket, Koh Chang, and Koh Lanta.

Phi Phi Don was one of the areas hit hard by the 2004 tsunami - but since then, guesthouses, restaurants, and markets have been rebuilt, and crowds still come in droves to the resort island. There is a small, somber memorial park to honor those who died in the tragedy, but the resort areas are otherwise revived and looking as beautiful as ever.

Accommodation: Where to Stay near the Phi Phi Islands

3. The Grand Palace, Bangkok
The Grand Palace, Bangkok
The Grand Palace, Bangkok | Photo Copyright: Meagan Drillinger
Even if your plans for Thailand mainly involve frolicking on a beach and eating as much Massaman curry and pad Thai as humanly possible, you'll probably spend at least a day or two in Bangkok. There are plenty of things to see and do in the capital, but the Grand Palace should definitely be at the top of your list. This is the number one sightseeing attraction in the city, and it's staggering in both historical significance and craftsmanship.

The grounds are a maze of royal halls, temples, and ancient relics, the most important being Wat Phra Kaeo (the Temple of the Emerald Buddha), said to hold a fragment of either hair or bone from the enlightened Buddha himself.

Allow several hours to do the Grand Palace justice, but if you're up for more walking afterward, you can easily take in some of the city's other major landmarks nearby. The famous Wat Po and Wat Arun, the Temple of the Dawn (a great place to watch the sunset), are just a few minutes away.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Bangkok: Best Areas & Hotels

Read More: Exploring Bangkok's Grand Palace: A Visitor's Guide
4. Sunday Walking Street, Chiang Mai
Sunday Walking Street, Chiang Mai
Sunday Walking Street, Chiang Mai
Every Thailand visitor looks forward to cheap and delicious food-and that's exactly what they can find in abundance at Chiang Mai's Sunday Night Walking Street. Vendors sell all kinds of treats here: from the popular pad Thai and chicken satay to samosas, fried bananas, sweet roti, and fresh fruit shakes-often for less than $2 a piece.


Once you've satisfied your culinary cravings, you can peruse hundreds of stalls selling an array of unique goods such as all-natural soaps, hand-dyed textiles bearing the unique patterns of local hill tribes, incense and essential oils, musical instruments, paintings, wall hangings, and more.

The market gets crowded every week without fail, no matter what time of the year you're visiting, so brace yourself and try to enjoy being part of the fun chaos. This is one of the must-dos in Chiang Mai, and an essential part of the Thailand experience. If you're not around for the Sunday market, or just want to get a taste of other market experiences in Chiang Mai, check out the Saturday Night Walking Street or the Night Bazaar on Chang Klan Road, a daily event. For something less touristy, head to the daytime Warorot Market, near Mae Ping River.

Accommodation: Top-Rated Places to Stay in Chiang Mai

5. Pai
Pai
Pai
Thailand's reputation as a country of beautiful landscapes and friendly people is due largely to the world-renowned southern beaches. Because of this, most people don't realize that the vast north is also home to entirely different but equally breathtaking places to visit.

Northern Thailand, particularly the western region near the Burmese border, is marked by mountainous jungle terrain that is both rugged and beautiful. Pai, in Mae Hong Son province, is the perfect starting point from which to enjoy the country's natural beauty, as well as the famed Thai hospitality and cooking.

This small town has developed a reputation as a mecca for hippies and backpackers, though you will see plenty of families traveling in the area as well. There is a small walking street market that comes alive every night, a variety of local and Western foods, and easy access to nearby Buddhist temples, waterfalls, and the impressive Pai canyon.

There is an air of cheerfulness and relaxation as you walk through the tiny town center, a vibe that continues to draw crowds season after season despite its somewhat remote location.