Melbourne
Written by Karen Hastings
Updated Sep 13, 2021

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

Multicultural Melbourne frequently tops the list of the world's most livable cities. Visit this vibrant city at the head of Port Phillip Bay, and you'll see why. Australia's second largest metropolis exudes an unmistakably European feel. Grand Victorian buildings recall the city's Gold Rush riches, and tree-lined promenades and a tangle of hidden laneways make exploring the city especially rewarding.

Melbourne skyline
Melbourne skyline
Culture is a big draw. Artlovers can get their fix at Melbourne's impressive museums and galleries. And foodies will also find plenty to love. Famous Aussie chefs flaunt their talents here, whipping up creative concoctions from around the world – you can feast on everything from Greek, Italian, and Indian cuisine to Spanish and Vietnamese.

But perhaps Melbourne's biggest claim to fame is sports. The famous Melbourne Cup horse race, held on the first Tuesday in November, brings the entire nation to a standstill. And Australian Rules football ("footy") elicits an almost religious reverence. If you're a sports lover, try to catch a game at the Melbourne Cricket Ground while you're here. Tennis fans flock to the Australian Open in early February, and Formula One followers eagerly anticipate the Australian Grand Prix.

You'll never run out of things to do in Melbourne. Explore the city's diverse galleries, cafés, and shops; stroll through lush gardens; cruise along the Yarra River; or hop aboard a heritage tram to discover Melbourne's magic.

Melbourne also boasts a busy arts calendar. Highlights include the Melbourne International Comedy Festival (March to April), and if you're looking for things to do in Melbourne in August, scoop up some tickets to the Melbourne International Film Festival. Seeking a little slice of nature? Rewarding day trip adventures lie a short drive from the city buzz.

Before you head out on your sightseeing tour, find the best places to visit in the city with our list of the top attractions and things to do in Melbourne.

See also: Where to Stay in Melbourne

1. Relax at the Royal Botanic Gardens
Royal Botanic Gardens
Royal Botanic Gardens
Melbourne's Royal Botanic Gardens are among the finest of their kind in the world. Established in 1846, the gardens encompass two locations: Melbourne and Cranbourne.

The Melbourne gardens lie in the heart of green parkland extending south of the Yarra River, about two kilometers from the CBD. Covering an area of 38 hectares, they are home to more than 10,000 plant species from around the globe, including many rare specimens.

Royal Botanic Gardens
Royal Botanic Gardens
Highlights include the Ian Potter Foundation Children's Garden, designed to encourage the next generation of gardeners, and the Fern Gully Health and Wellbeing Garden, a tranquil spot to escape from the hustle and bustle of the city. The Aboriginal Heritage Walk explores the rich heritage of Indigenous Australians.

In summer, live theater is a highlight of the gardens, and a moonlight cinema is set up under the stars. Rolling lawns, lakes, large trees, and abundant birdlife make this a beautiful spot to linger and enjoy a picnic or a traditional high tea at The Terrace café.

No matter what time of year you visit these beautiful gardens, this is one of the best free things to do in Melbourne.

Address: Birdwood Ave, South Yarra, Melbourne, Victoria

Official site: http://www.rbg.vic.gov.au/

2. Find Inspiration at the National Gallery of Victoria
National Gallery of Victoria
National Gallery of Victoria | a.canvas.of.light / photo modified
Melbourne is famous for its culture, and the National Gallery of Victoria is the jewel in the crown. It's not only the oldest public art gallery in Australia, it's also the most visited. Here, you can admire more than 70,000 works of European, Asian, Oceanic, and American art in two city locations.

The international collection is housed in the St. Kilda Road building, originally opened in 1968. The building is renowned for The Great Hall, where visitors are encouraged to lie on the floor and gaze at the colorful stained-glass ceiling.

The Great Hall at the National Gallery of Victoria
The Great Hall at the National Gallery of Victoria | Daniel / photo modified
The extensive Australian collection is held in the Ian Potter Gallery in Federation Square, featuring the history of Australian art, from Aboriginal works through to the Heidelberg School, and contemporary mixed media. One of the highlights is the large triptych format, The Pioneer by Frederick McCubbin.


There's always something new to see at the National Gallery of Victoria. It presents more than 40 exhibitions a year, as well as special events, children's programs, tours, and performances. Best of all, entry to the permanent exhibitions is free.

Address: St. Kilda Road, Melbourne, Victoria

Official site: http://www.ngv.vic.gov.au/

3. Check Out Federation Square
Federation Square
Federation Square
When Federation Square opened in 2002 to commemorate 100 years of federation, it divided Melburnians. There were those who loved it and those who hated it. Either way, "Fed Square" has become an integral part of the city, a popular meeting place, and a great spot for tourists to start their sightseeing.


You can't miss Fed Square. It's located opposite Flinders Street Station, a major public transport hub. The building's ultra-modern design of open and closed spaces stands in striking contrast to the surrounding Victorian architecture.

Live entertainment lures locals and tourists here. With more than 2,000 events annually, you can always find a performance or festival to enjoy in the central outdoor performance space and intimate indoor venues. And you'll find plenty of cafés and restaurants here, too.

Museums and galleries are another highlight of visiting Federation Square. The Ian Potter Centre: NGV Australia is dedicated to Australian art. The Australian Centre for the Moving Image (ACMI) hosts fascinating interactive exhibits on screen culture (film, TV, videos, and art); and the Koorie Heritage Trust, displays art, photographs, and artifacts from the Koorie Aboriginal people, who hail from parts of Victoria and New South Wales. Best of all, entry to these museums is free.

Fed Square is also one of the largest free Wi-Fi sites in Australia.

Address: Corner of Swanston and Flinders Streets, Melbourne, Victoria

Official site: http://www.fedsquare.com/

4. Wander through Melbourne's Arcades and Laneways
Arcade in Melbourne
Royal Arcade in Melbourne | Alpha / photo modified
Wandering the labyrinth of lanes and alleyways is one of the most popular things to do in Melbourne. Head to the the area around Flinders, Collins, and Bourke Streets to see elegant, interesting, and quirky Melbourne at its best.

For high-end shopping, one of the most popular places to visit in Melbourne is the magnificent Block Arcade in Collins Street. With its mosaic floor, period details, and boutique shops, this is the place where late 19th-century gentry promenaded, coining the phrase, "doing the block." You'll find everything here from Haigh's Chocolates and vintage jewelry to designer fashion, gifts, and cafés. It's also worth lining up for a morning or afternoon tea at the Hopetoun Tearooms. This Melbourne icon dates back to 1892 and is the only original shop still in the arcade today.

Cozy cafés beckon from the tangle of backstreets. Save time to order a coffee, pull up a chair, and people-watch for a while – it's a favorite Melbourne pastime.

The opulent Royal Arcade is Melbourne's oldest arcade, and Flinders and Degraves Lanes are also well worth exploring. Want to make sure you hit all the hot spots? Several companies run sightseeing walking tours of the lanes and alleyways.

5. Get a Culture Fix at Southbank & South Wharf
Southbank
Southbank
Need a culture fix? Head to Southbank. Located on the banks of the Yarra River, a short stroll from Flinders Street Station, this scenic precinct is packed with shops, cafés, and cultural attractions. It's a wonderful place for a stroll along the river at any time of year.

Looking for things to do in Melbourne at night? You'll find some of the city's best nightlife here – especially in the South Wharf area, where heritage sheds are converted into lively entertainment venues. It's an evocative space after dark, when the city lights ignite and reflect off the river.

Southbank also hosts enticing alfresco cafés, restaurants, and live entertainment, and the many festivals held here throughout the year amp up the vibe.

If shopping is high on your list of things to do, you'll find an excellent arts and crafts market here every Sunday. Plus you can splurge at chic designer boutiques or grab a bargain at DFO South Wharf, factory outlet stores.

Feel like catching a show? The Malthouse Theatre presents everything from musical theater, dance, drama, and comedy to contemporary opera and cabaret. Or catch a performance by the Melbourne Theatre Company at Southbank Theatre. Southbank is also home to Arts Centre Melbourne, the city's major performance venue.

While you're here, keep a lookout for the public art, like The Travellers steel sculptures along Sandridge Bridge and the Queen Bee gracing the side of the landmark Eureka Tower.