Queensland
Written by Karen Hastings
Updated Sep 13, 2021

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

Queensland, "the Sunshine State," is Australia's most popular vacation destination. Golden beaches, idyllic tropical islands, fantastic surf breaks, World Heritage-listed rainforests, rivers, reefs, and waterfalls are just some of the state's natural jewels.

All Queensland's sun-soaked settings offer exhilarating outdoor adventures. The dazzling Whitsunday Islands and the Great Barrier Reef offer superb diving and snorkeling. K'Gari (Fraser Island) is a favorite four-wheel-driving adventure, and the wilderness areas along the Queensland coast are excellent for hiking, biking, boating, and fishing.

For a change of pace, Queensland's capital, Brisbane, delivers big-city attractions with a small-town feel. South of Brisbane lies the glitzy Gold Coast with its hedonism and high rises. Traveling north along the coast from the capital, you can explore a string of holiday resorts, from sleepy beach towns and rainforest villages, to picturesque Port Douglas, and the tropical tourist-magnet of Cairns. Learn more about the best places to visit in this sunny state with our list of the top attractions and things to do in Queensland.

1. Dive or Snorkel on the Great Barrier Reef
Great Barrier Reef
Great Barrier Reef
It's difficult to overstate the beauty and ecological importance of this World Heritage-listed natural wonder. This is the planet's largest living structure, and it's so vast, you can see it from space.

Much of the reef lies within the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park, which extends off the northern coast of Queensland, from Mackay to the northeastern corner of Australia. The park itself is about half the size of Texas and protects more than 3,000 coral reefs, 600 continental islands, 300 coral cays, and a patchwork of mangrove islands.

Diving or snorkeling the reef is one of Australia's must-do outdoor adventures. The astounding diversity of marine life lures visitors from around the world. More than 1,600 species of tropical fish inhabit the reef, as well as sharks, dugongs, dolphins, turtles, giant clams, and kaleidoscopic soft and hard corals. Underwater viewing stations and glass-bottom boats also offer a window into this underwater wonderland.

Divers enjoying the colorful Great Barrier Reef
Divers enjoying the colorful Great Barrier Reef
Other popular things to do during a visit to the Great Barrier Reef include scenic flights, island-hopping cruises, and sailing trips.

On the mainland, Cairns, Port Douglas, and Airlie Beach are the top gateway towns for tours. Alternatively, you can stay at one of the resort islands within the marine park. The Whitsunday Islands offer popular attractions and accommodation options and make a great base to explore the reef.

Remote Lizard Island, the park's most northerly island, is famous for its exclusive resort, and Lady Elliot Island, the reef's southernmost coral cay, is home to a popular eco-resort.

Accommodation: Where to Stay near the Great Barrier Reef

2. Take a Safari through Daintree National Park and Cape Tribulation
Daintree National Park
Daintree National Park
A Wet Tropics World Heritage Area, Daintree National Park is the planet's oldest surviving rainforest. That alone should be reason enough to visit, but it also harbors one of the world's highest concentrations of threatened and endangered species.

Located in Far North Queensland, the two main sections of the park include the crystal-clear waters and lush forests of Mossman Gorge, as well as Cape Tribulation, where tropical rainforest fringes the reef-splotched shores of the Coral Sea.

The ecosystems here are incredibly diverse. More than 18,000 plant species, as well as a fascinating array of animals live within the park, including the flightless southern cassowaries (ostrich-sized birds), crocodiles, Boyd's rainforest dragons, brightly hued azure kingfishers, spotted cuscuses, and musky rat-kangaroos.

The best way to explore this area is on a guided safari. Many companies offer tours on amphibious vehicles and include rainforest hikes and tropical fruit tastings. However, you can also take a self-drive tour.

Other popular things to do include ziplining through the rainforest, horseback riding, swimming at Mossman Gorge, looking for cassowaries along the Jindalba Boardwalk, and hiking the many other rainforest trails.

Just south of the park, the resort town of Port Douglas is a popular base for arranging rainforest wilderness safaris. This area is one of the best places to visit in Queensland in winter, during the dry season.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Port Douglas

3. Go Four-Wheel-Driving on K'Gari (Fraser Island)
Four-wheel driving on K'Gari (Fraser Island)
Four-wheel driving on K'Gari (Fraser Island) | Photo Copyright: Karen Hastings
On the beautiful Fraser Coast, about a 3.5-hour drive from Brisbane, World Heritage-listed K'Gari (Fraser Island) is the largest sand island in the world. Four-wheel drive adventures here explore wide windswept beaches, crystal-clear lakes and streams, dingoes, dense forests, sacred Aboriginal sites, and multi-hued rock formations.


Seventy-Five Mile Beach is the island's main thoroughfare and provides access to some of K'Gari's top attractions. These include the rusted hull of the Maheno shipwreck, the bubbling rock pools of Champagne Pools, Eli Creek, and the colored sandstone cliffs of The Pinnacles.

Tiger sharks, dolphins, and whales swim in the wind-whipped waters, and the island's fauna includes Australia's purest strain of dingo and more than 300 species of birds.

Aquamarine Lake McKenzie
Aquamarine Lake McKenzie | Photo Copyright: Karen Hastings
Top things to do inland include swimming in the aquamarine Lake McKenzie; exploring the rainforest trails of Central Station; and visiting Lake Wabby, backed by a towering sandblow.


The most popular access point for tours to Fraser Island is Hervey Bay, the whale watching capital of Australia. From here, you can hop aboard a car or passenger ferry to K'Gari or book a Fraser Island Day Tour.

Accommodation: Where to Stay on Fraser Island

4. Island Hop at the Whitsundays
Whitsunday Islands
Whitsunday Islands
Off the coast of central Queensland, the Whitsunday group encompasses 74 stunning islands strung along the Great Barrier Reef. The Whitsundays are continental islands, the summits of a coastal range emerging from the sea. All but five of them have been declared national parks, and about eight are home to popular resorts.

Popular things to do in the Whitsundays include diving and snorkeling tours, sailing trips, basking on the dazzling tropical beaches, and relaxing at the island resorts.

The most famous resorts include luxurious Hayman Island; tiny Daydream Island Resort; well-developed Hamilton Island, the largest of the island resorts; and Palm Bay Resort on beautiful Long Island, with access to 13 kilometers of walking tracks.


On uninhabited Whitsunday Island, Whitehaven Beach, with its powdery white sands and turquoise water, is one of the most beautiful beaches in Australia.

Airlie Beach is the main launching points for island excursions.

5. Stroll along Four Mile Beach in Port Douglas
Port Douglas 
Port Douglas
Dotted with palms and mango trees, the once-sleepy village of Port Douglas is now a charming holiday resort. It's the closest mainland town to the Great Barrier Reef, making it a popular base for reef trips, as well as wilderness safaris in Daintree National Park. This picturesque town lies about an hour's drive north of Cairns, along a scenic coastal road, which winds between beaches and rainforest-cloaked hills.

Skirting the beautiful blond sweep of Four Mile Beach, Port Douglas has a relaxed tropical vibe, with cute cafés, shops, and art galleries. From the Flagstaff Hill Lookout enjoy breathtaking views of the palm-fringed beach merging with the turquoise Coral Sea.

Top things to do in Port Douglas include getting up close to Aussie animals at the Wildlife Habitat, shopping at the farmers markets, and soaking up the downtown scene on Macrossan Street. Other adventures on offer include safaris in all-terrain vehicles to Daintree National Park and Cape Tribulation, fishing trips, northbound expeditions through the rugged landscape of the Cape York Peninsula, and boat trips to Cooktown and the Great Barrier Reef.

Thanks to the year-round toasty weather in the tropics, Port Douglas is one of the best places to visit in Queensland in winter. This is the prime tourist season, when the weather is typically sunny and dry.