New South Wales (NSW)
Written by Karen Hastings
Updated Sep 24, 2021

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

New South Wales (NSW) is the oldest state in Australia and one of its most diverse. Sydney shines as the state capital, with famous tourist attractions like the Sydney Opera House and the Sydney Harbour Bridge, as well as top-notch restaurants, galleries, and museums. Venture beyond this beautiful harbor city, and you'll find a state full of surprises, with six of Australia's World Heritage Areas.

Topographically, New South Wales reflects the diverse landscapes of the country as a whole. The Great Dividing Range cuts through the center of the state, carving it into an eastern coastal strip, rimmed by dazzling beaches, while the stark desert beauty of the Outback sprawls to the west.

Exploring New South Wales is easy, and you'll find plenty of rewarding things to do. Climb or ski the rugged peaks of the Snowy Mountains, hunt for opals in red-earthed Outback towns, hike through World Heritage-listed rainforests, dive the coral reefs of Lord Howe island, and step back in time at Norfolk Island's World Heritage historic sites.

Learn more about this dynamic state with our list of the top attractions and best places to visit in New South Wales.

1. Sydney
Sydney
Sydney
Sydney, the capital of NSW, is one of the world's most alluring cities. Graced by the iconic Sydney Opera House and harbor bridge, the sparkling blue harbor is the city's crown jewel. Hop aboard a ferry or harbor cruise to really appreciate these top Sydney attractions and the city's stunning waterfront location.

In addition to world-class restaurants, festivals, galleries, and museums, you'll find plenty of things to do in Sydney. Stroll along the cobblestone streets of the historic Rocks area; wander through the Royal Botanic Gardens; or climb the Sydney Harbour Bridge. You can also explore the shops, restaurants, and tourist sites at Darling Harbor, one of the top New South Wales attractions for families.

Sydney is known for its excellent beaches. You can bask on famous Bondi Beach, learn to surf at Manly, or paddle the calm waters at Balmoral.

You'll also find plenty of attractions near Sydney. Stretching northwest from the city, the picturesque Hawkesbury River and surrounding national parks are great day trip destinations, with excellent opportunities for bushwalking, birding, and boating.

Accommodation: Where to Stay in Sydney: Best Areas & Hotels

2. The Blue Mountains
Three Sisters, Blue Mountains National Park
Three Sisters, Blue Mountains National Park
The Blue Mountains are one of the most scenic places to visit in New South Wales. For more than a hundred years, this region has been a favorite getaway for nature lovers.

About 65 kilometers west of the city, the mountains rise steeply out of the coastal plain, combining magnificent gorges, waterfalls, rock formations, and sacred Aboriginal sites with excellent tourist facilities. Named for the blue haze created by the many eucalyptus trees, the region forms one of the state's magnificent World Heritage Sites.

Popular things to do in the Blue Mountains include hiking, rock climbing, abseiling, mountain biking, and photographing the spectacular beauty. Save time to see all the top attractions. Highlights include Wentworth Falls, the towering sandstone rock formations called the Three Sisters, and the Blue Mountains Botanic Garden Mount Tomah.

At Jenolan Caves, the world's oldest known open cave system, you can view glittering stalactites and stalagmites. The Blue Mountains also host some of Australia's best hiking trails.

Wondering about the best way to see some of the top natural attractions with limited time? Sign up for the adventures offered by Scenic World. These include a Skyway, cableway, an elevated walkway, and one of the world's steepest railways. Better still, book a combination of these adventures to see the park from different perspectives.

Blue Mountains National Park is one of the top places to visit near Sydney by car, but you can also catch a train or join a guided day trip tour.

Accommodation: Where to Stay near Blue Mountains National Park

3. Lord Howe Island
Lord Howe Island 
Lord Howe Island
World Heritage-listed Lord Howe Island is a haven for serenity-seekers and nature lovers. Surrounded by the world's most southerly coral reef, this spectacular island, about 660 kilometers off the New South Wales north coast, only allows a maximum of 400 guests at a time.

Lord Howe encompasses a number of islets, which are part of a former volcano. Dramatic cliffs rise along the rugged coast, and other island highlights include white-sand beaches, pristine native forests of pandanus and kentia palms, and spectacular views from atop 875-meter-high Mt. Gower.

Almost two-thirds of Lord Howe is protected, and the island is home to a diversity of flora and fauna. Birding is excellent, with more than 130 permanent and migratory species. Offshore, the Lord Howe Island Marine Park protects coral reefs, and offers superb diving and snorkeling.

Other popular things to do on Lord Howe Island include fishing, surfing, kayaking, and hiking along the many walking trails. Bikes are the best way to explore the island – they are also the island's main mode of transport.

Looking to disconnect from the stress of daily life? You're in luck. You won't find any cell phone reception here, which helps to preserve the peaceful ambience.

Lord Howe Island lies less than a two-hour-flight away from Sydney or Brisbane, and although it's not technically a tropical island, it still ranks as one of the most beautiful islands in the South Pacific.

4. Byron Bay
Byron Bay
Cape Byron Lighthouse at dusk, Byron Bay
On the north coast, Byron Bay is a hot spot for surfers and New Age nature buffs. A wide stretch of golden beach fronts the ocean here, and a lovely hike along the Cape Byron Track leads to the most easterly point on the Australian continent and its famous lighthouse. Dolphins and whales frolic in the waters, and water sports abound.

In the hinterland, you can explore World Heritage-listed Wollumbin National Park (formerly Mount Warning National Park) with tranquil rainforests and waterfalls. Byron is also known for its colorful markets, as well as its health and yoga retreats, spa resorts, and luxury boutique hotels.

Lately, celebrity spotting has become a favorite pastime. Chris Hemsworth is a famous resident, and several other high profile Hollywood stars have spent time here between movie shoots.

To soak up the soul of old Byron Bay, venture about an hour inland to the tiny town of Nimbin, a hippie hub and hotbed for counterculture and alternative lifestyles.

5. The South Coast's Beaches
Blenheim Beach, Jervis Bay
Blenheim Beach, Jervis Bay
If you love beaches, bucolic landscapes, and charming small towns, you'll love the South Coast of New South Wales. Stretching from the southern fringe of Sydney to the Victorian border, this region is home to some of the state's most beautiful white-sand beaches set against the dark summits of the Great Dividing Range. Rolling green hills, lakes, inlets, and forests fringe the coast, and the climate is mild throughout the year.

Strung along the coast are a series of small holiday resorts. Many offer fantastic opportunities for water sports from their beaches, including swimming, fishing, snorkeling, and surfing. Kiama is home to the world's largest blowhole, and Jervis Bay is a standout with its radiant powder-soft sands. Nearby, the dazzling Hyams Beach, reputedly with the world's whitest sand, is one of Australia's best beaches. Batemans Bay is also home to alluring shores, as well as the Batemans Bay Snorkelling Trail.

If you're looking for some of the most beautiful hidden places in New South Wales, you'll find them along the South Coast. Merimbula and its sister village Pambula on the Sapphire Coast are hidden gems, with beautiful beaches, crystal-clear lakes, and fantastic opportunities for water sports.

One of the most southerly places on the coast is the old fishing village of Eden, once a prosperous whaling station. North and south of town lies the Ben Boyd National Park with magnificent views of reddish sandstone cliffs from Boyd's Tower, a former lighthouse.