Tasmania
Written by Karen Hastings
Updated Oct 21, 2021

We may earn a commission from affiliate links ()

For those who haven't visited Australia's smallest state, Tasmania or "Tassie," seems shrouded in mystique. Perhaps it's the state's far-flung location, some 300 kilometers south of the Australian mainland across stormy Bass Strait. Maybe it's the vast expanses of windswept wilderness. Almost half of Tasmania's land mass lies in national parks and World Heritage Areas, with sparkling alpine lakes, wild rivers, and mist-cloaked peaks.

Perhaps it's the bizarre wildlife – from real life Tasmanian devils to the extinct thylacine, the Tasmanian tiger. Or is it the haunting convict history and beautifully preserved heritage towns, which seem frozen in time? Today, this mystique lures more and more tourists who are discovering the island's many jewels.

Shaped appropriately like a heart, Tasmania is also a foodie's delight. Gloriously creamy cheeses, crisp fruits, and succulent seafood are just some of the mouthwatering local treats on offer, and hanging out at a waterfront café or restaurant is one of the top things to do in the port city of Hobart.

If you're looking for a unique way to arrive on the island, you can travel from Melbourne to Devonport by sea on the Spirit of Tasmania. Best of all, you can bring your car with you. If you choose this option, check out a Tasmania attractions map, and plot a scenic road-trip.

Explore this enchanting state with our list of the top attractions and things to do in Tasmania.

See also: Where to Stay in Tasmania

1. Explore Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park
Cradle Mountain-Lake St Clair National Park
Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park
In the north of the Tasmanian Wilderness World Heritage Area, Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park is the jewel in the crown of the state's many natural wonders. Glacier-carved crags; glittering lakes; beech forests; alpine heathland; and jagged dolerite peaks, including 1,616-meter-high Mount Ossa (the highest point on the island), are some of its most breathtaking features.

Hiking in Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park is legendary. Favorite day walks include the Lake Dove Walk, with magnificent views of Cradle Mountain (1,545 meters), and the Weindorfer Walk, a six-kilometer circuit through dense forests. If you're wondering what to do in Tasmania for a week, a hiking trip here could more than fill your days.

The northern part of Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park, is particularly beautiful. From the summit of Cradle Mountain, you can enjoy breathtaking views of the central highlands. The famous 80-kilometer Overland Track runs south from Cradle Valley to stunning Lake St. Clair, the deepest lake in Australia.

If you're based in Hobart and want to explore this magnificent national park, as well as some of the state's other top natural attractions, the budget-priced five-day Best of Tasmania tour from Hobart takes care of all the details. As well as Cradle Mountain-Lake St. Clair National Park, you'll experience the wonders of Wineglass Bay, the Tarkine rainforest, and the Bay of Fires, with optional add-ons, like a cruise on the Gordon River. You'll also visit Bonorong Wildlife Sanctuary, one of the top things to do in Tasmania for families.

Official site: http://www.parks.tas.gov.au/indeX.aspX?base=3297

Accommodation: Where to Stay near Cradle Mountain


2. Get a Culture Fix in Hobart
Hobart
Hobart
Tasmania's capital has transformed itself from a sleepy backwater with a turbulent convict history to a hub of cutting-edge culture. Its beautiful setting between the sea and the soaring peak of kunanyi/Mount Wellington has, no doubt, inspired many of its talented artists in all genres.

Opened in 2011, MONA: Museum of Old and New Art pushes the art world envelope with its provocative and confronting exhibits, while the Tasmanian Museum and Art Gallery takes a more traditional look at the country's art, as well as its natural history.

Foodies will also find plenty to smile about. The city's waterfront precinct buzzes with hip cafés and restaurants, and you can eat around the world on the restaurant strip in North Hobart.


Delving into the city's rich convict history is another one of the top things to do in Hobart. Visit the Hobart Convict Penitentiary, and explore the historic sandstone warehouses at Salamanca Place, now filled with shops, cafés, and antique dealers. From here, you can also follow the Battery Point Sculpture Trail to see elegant convict-built architecture.

Natural attractions are also never far away from the city buzz. Climb kunanyi/Mount Wellington to really appreciate Hobart's picturesque setting, and gaze out at the World Heritage wilderness in the distance.

3. Port Arthur Historic Site
Port Arthur Historic Site
Port Arthur Historic Site
The old convict settlement of Port Arthur offers a sobering look at Tasmania's turbulent past. About an hour's drive southeast of Hobart, the ruins are part of the Australian Convict Sites World Heritage Property. Here, in 1830, Governor Sir George Arthur established a brutal penal settlement where convicts were forced to hew coal in the mines and fell timber.

In spite of a devastating fire in 1897, the remains of many buildings still stand, including the guard tower, church, model prison, and hospital. You can also browse fascinating documents and relics of the penal settlement in the museum, or visit the nearby Coal Mines Historic Site. Admission tickets give you two days to explore all the attractions here, and they also include an introductory walking tour and 25-minute harbor cruise.


Looking for unique things to do in Tasmania? Consider joining an evening lantern-lit "ghost tour" of the ruins.

After touring Port Arthur, take a drive along the coast to explore the soaring sea cliffs and sheltered coves of the spectacular Tasman peninsula.

Address: 6973 Arthur Hwy, Port Arthur, Tasmania

Official site: http://portarthur.org.au/

Accommodation: Where to Stay near Port Arthur Historic Site

4. Hike through Freycinet National Park
Freycinet National Park
Freycinet National Park
World Heritage-listed Freycinet National Park, on Tasmania's relatively sunny east coast, is one of Australia's oldest nature reserves and one of its most beautiful. Hiking the many scenic trails here is the best way to explore the park.


The star of this picturesque peninsula is the perfect curve of powder-white sand and azure sea at Wineglass Bay – one of the top beaches in Australia. Wander through pristine bushland to secluded bays and lookouts, or tackle the Wineglass Bay Circuit, one of Australia's top hikes. Along the way, keep a look out for some of the many birds in the park. Black cockatoos, kookaburras, and sea birds are just some of the resident species.

Take the 20-minute walk from the lookout to the southern end of Wineglass Bay to admire beautiful views of the Hazards, three striking pink granite crags rising out of the sea. The peaks are best photographed at sunrise and sunset when their color deepens in the golden light.

At the entrance to Freycinet National Park, the little beach resort of Coles Bay is a good base for walks and climbs in the surrounding hills, and you can also explore the entire region on the East Coast Escape scenic drive.

Official site: http://www.parks.tas.gov.au/indeX.aspX?base=3363

5. See the Views from kunanyi/Mount Wellington
kunanyi (Mount Wellington)
kunanyi (Mount Wellington)
Undulating to the west of Hobart, the comforting presence of 1,270-meter-high kunanyi/Mount Wellington is a constant reminder of the unspoiled wilderness that lies on the doorstep of this waterfront capital.


Follow a winding 21-kilometer mountain road to the Pinnacle, often sprinkled with snow, for breathtaking views over Hobart, the Derwent Valley, and the D'Entrecasteaux Channel. At the summit, boardwalks lead to panoramic viewpoints, and a pavilion displays old photographs of Hobart and Mount Wellington.

The mountain is a popular spot for biking and hiking through the temperate rain forests, and the distinctive Organ Pipes, a dolerite cliff, is renowned for its excellent rock climbing. Standing atop the summit and admiring the sweeping views is one of the best free things to do in Tasmania, but dress warmly as the weather here is notoriously fickle.